# Breaking Changes

## [7.0.0] 2024.07.31

* Deprecating the HA crond installation method in favour of Appdaemon. The crond method will still exist
  but will get removed in a subsequent release, no development efforts will be done anymore. Upgrade
  your installation to use Appdaemon.

## [6.0.0] - 2024-07

* When upgrading from release 5.x to 6.0, only a view changes are required:
  * You CAN safely remove all `general_` and `timer` config keys from the `.env` file.\
  They are now internally autogenerated. Keep those you have deviated from the default.\
  It is recommended to do so to keep the .env file slim.
  * You CAN add `default_` keys to your .env file, see the .env-sample for details.\
  IMPORTANT: compared to the former release where things are hardcoded, defaults are now compliant
  to what EET has defined like max wattage with value 500. You can change that to the EU standard of max 800.
  * The BOOST function and the INJECTION settings have been reworked, see the README for important details.
  * Any `.env` setting that contained a string value for a boolean representation is now internally
  converted into their bool value.

## [5.0.0] - 2024-04-29

* When upgrading from release 4.x to 5.0, some important steps need to be performed in the given sequence:
  * Stop the automatic start of the Solmate script in HA and reboot - it will not start when HA comes up or stop the script when using systemd.
  * Remove all MQTT entries belonging to the Solmate, this includes:
    * All homassistant autoconfig data.
    * All data that gets updated regulary.
  * Update all files (there are NEW and changed ones!) and reenable automatic script start.\
    All info should now be available in MQTT (HA device and MQTT explorer)
  * Restart HA
  * Reassign the new entities when e.g. used in gauges etc.
  * Important, read the docs if you have used a Riemann Integration to build up sums. There is a note how to update the RI source to a new entity.

## [4.0.0] - 2024-02-29

* When upgrading from release 3.0 to 4.x, some important steps need to be performed in the given sequence:
  * Upgrade / download all files from the repo, there are NEW and changed ones!
  * There are new dependencies. Check with `check-requirememts.py` if all of them are satisfied.

## [3.0.0] - 2024-02-25

* When upgrading from release 2.x to 3.0, some important steps need to be performed in the given sequence:
  * Upgrade / download all files from the repo, there are NEW and changed ones!
  * There are new dependencies. Check with `check-requirememts.py` if all of them are satisfied.
  * You MUST upgrade at least the `paho-mqtt` to version 2.x  
  The code checks if this version is installed and refuses to continue if not!

## [2.0.0] - 2023-03-05

* When upgrading from release 1.x to 2.x some important steps need to be performed in the given sequence:
  * Upgrade / download all files from the repo, there are NEW ones!
  * There are new dependencies. Check with `check-requirememts.py` if all of them are satisfied.
  * As suggestion, take the new `.env-sample` file as base for your config.  
  There are new envvars. Configure all envvars according your environment / needs.
